README.md, before:

# 🤖 ArduinoLab – Step-by-Step Arduino Programming & Electronics Learning App

ArduinoLab is a **complete Android-based learning platform** designed to help beginners, students, and hobbyists learn Arduino programming and electronics **step by step**.  
From blinking a single LED to working with advanced sensors, motors, and displays, ArduinoLab acts as a **portable Arduino laboratory** in your pocket. 📱⚡

---

## 📌 Table of Contents

- Overview  
- Objectives  
- Target Audience  
- Key Features & Learning Modules  
- Detailed Module Breakdown  
- UI/UX Design Highlights  
- App Architecture & Structure  
- Screens & Navigation Flow  
- Getting Started  
- Installation  
- Usage  
- Built With  
- Performance & Compatibility  
- Future Enhancements  
- Contributing  
- License  
- Contact  

---

## 🌟 Overview

ArduinoLab provides a **visually guided, beginner-friendly learning experience** for Arduino electronics and programming.  
The app follows a **structured tutorial approach**, allowing users to progress logically from basic concepts to more advanced modules.

Each tutorial includes:
- Clear explanations  
- Practical use cases  
- Real-world component understanding  

---

## 🎯 Objectives

- Simplify Arduino programming for beginners  
- Provide structured, step-by-step learning paths  
- Bridge theory with real-world electronics applications  
- Offer a clean, distraction-free learning environment  
- Enable self-paced learning without external tools  

---

## 👥 Target Audience

- University and school students  
- Electronics and IoT beginners  
- Arduino hobbyists and makers  
- Self-learners exploring embedded systems  
- Educators introducing Arduino concepts  

---

## 🛠 Key Features & Learning Modules

ArduinoLab is organized into a **modern grid-based layout**, providing quick access to each learning module.

### 💻 Core Programming
- Arduino IDE basics  
- Arduino C/C++ syntax  
- Variables, loops, and conditions  
- Digital and analog pin usage  

### 📡 Communication
- Serial Monitor usage  
- Debugging techniques  
- Data transmission and monitoring  

### 💡 Lighting & Inputs
- LED interfacing  
- Digital buttons  
- Pull-up and pull-down logic  

### ⚙️ Motion & Actuators
- Servo motor control  
- DC motor control  
- Relay module operation  

### 📺 Visual Displays
- LED display interfacing  
- LCD screen basics  
- OLED display usage  

### 📏 Sensing the World
- Ultrasonic sensors (distance measurement) 📏  
- DHT sensors (temperature & humidity) 🌡️  
- LDR sensors (light intensity) ☀️  
- Sound sensors 🔊  
- PIR motion sensors 🏃‍♂️  

---

## 🔍 Detailed Module Breakdown

Each module includes:
- Component introduction  
- Working principle explanation  
- Required hardware list  
- Circuit understanding (concept-based)  
- Arduino code explanation  
- Practical use cases  

---

## 🎨 UI/UX Design Highlights

ArduinoLab focuses heavily on **modern, premium UI/UX design** optimized for long learning sessions.

- 🌙 **Dark Theme UI** – Reduces eye strain  
- 💎 **Teal Gradient Backgrounds** – Custom XML drawable shapes  
- 📱 **Rounded Cards** – 12dp corner radius for a modern look  
- 📐 **Grid Layout Design** – Two-column responsive grid  
- ⚡ **Optimized Layouts** – Built using `ConstraintLayout` and `RelativeLayout`  
- 🔄 **Smooth Navigation** – Clean transitions between activities  

---

## 🏗 App Architecture & Structure

- Modular activity-based structure  
- Separate activities for each learning module  
- Intent-based navigation system  
- Reusable XML layout components  
- Scalable design for future modules  

---

## 📱 Screens & Navigation Flow

- Splash Screen  
- Home / Dashboard  
- Module Grid View  
- Individual Tutorial Screens  
- Code & Explanation Views  

## 📸 Screenshots

## 📸 Screenshots

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Splash Screen</th>
    <th>Home Dashboard</th>
    <th>Tutorial Grid</th>
    <th>Core Programming</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0464b52f-7d15-447d-aa29-1c8f42cebc8f" width="200"/></td>
    <td><img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/db61dace-d5aa-4510-a27e-e5175cc0dd29" width="200"/></td>
    <td><img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/84271736-45cb-47f4-9fd4-89e8f320fb81" width="200"/></td>
    <td><img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/92d7abe3-9b4d-43cf-9eac-1265a69b6b19" width="200"/></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>My Projects</th>
    <th>Update Tutorial</th>
    <th>Tutorial Screen</th>
    <th></th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/376a6479-9ef0-413e-b5f6-7faec9ff8338" width="200"/></td>
    <td><img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3728e5b6-df46-4fdd-8aca-075d8857edfe" width="200"/></td>
    <td><img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c0268bc3-e286-489b-88df-9c428bc16eb1" width="200"/></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

### ✅ Prerequisites

- Android Studio **Jellyfish** or newer  
- Android SDK **34+**  
- Java **8 or higher**  
- Android device or emulator  

---

## 📦 Installation

1. **Clone the repository**

   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/ArduinoLab.git

2. **Open in Android Studio**

   * Open Android Studio
   * Select the `ArduinoLab` project folder

3. **Build the project**

   * Allow Gradle to sync dependencies

4. **Run the app**

   * Connect an Android device or start an emulator
   * Click the **Run ▶️** button

---

## ▶️ Usage

* Launch the ArduinoLab app
* Select a module from the home grid
* Follow step-by-step tutorials
* Learn Arduino concepts at your own pace

No internet connection is required once the app is installed.

---

## 🛠 Built With

* ☕ **Java** – Application logic and activity handling
* 🎨 **XML Layouts** – UI design using ConstraintLayout & RelativeLayout
* 🖼 **Vector Drawables** – High-quality scalable icons
* 📱 **Android SDK** – Native Android development

---

## ⚡ Performance & Compatibility

* Optimized for low and mid-range Android devices
* Smooth UI rendering with minimal memory usage
* Compatible with Android SDK 34+
* Responsive across different screen sizes

---

## 🔮 Future Enhancements

* Interactive quizzes for each module
* Built-in Arduino code simulator
* Video-based tutorials
* IoT and ESP32 modules
* Dark/Light theme toggle
* Multi-language support

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions help improve ArduinoLab and make learning more accessible.

### How to Contribute

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a new branch

   git checkout -b feature/YourFeature

3. Commit your changes

   git commit -m "Add new feature"

4. Push to GitHub

   git push origin feature/YourFeature

5. Open a Pull Request

---

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the **MIT License**.
See the `LICENSE` file for more details. ⚖️

---

## 📧 Contact

**Nadeeshana Lahiru Kavinda**
Email: `nadeeshana1998@gmail.com`

Commit message:

Update contribution guidelines and license section
Consolidate contribution steps and add license details.

README.md, after:

# 🤖 ArduinoLab – Step-by-Step Arduino Programming & Electronics Learning App

ArduinoLab is a **complete Android-based learning platform** designed to help beginners, students, and hobbyists learn Arduino programming and electronics **step by step**.  
From blinking a single LED to working with advanced sensors, motors, and displays, ArduinoLab acts as a **portable Arduino laboratory** in your pocket. 📱⚡

---

## 📌 Table of Contents

- Overview  
- Objectives  
- Target Audience  
- Key Features & Learning Modules  
- Detailed Module Breakdown  
- UI/UX Design Highlights  
- App Architecture & Structure  
- Screens & Navigation Flow  
- Getting Started  
- Installation  
- Usage  
- Built With  
- Performance & Compatibility  
- Future Enhancements  
- Contributing  
- License  
- Contact  

---

## 🌟 Overview

ArduinoLab provides a **visually guided, beginner-friendly learning experience** for Arduino electronics and programming.  
The app follows a **structured tutorial approach**, allowing users to progress logically from basic concepts to more advanced modules.

Each tutorial includes:
- Clear explanations  
- Practical use cases  
- Real-world component understanding  

---

## 🎯 Objectives

- Simplify Arduino programming for beginners  
- Provide structured, step-by-step learning paths  
- Bridge theory with real-world electronics applications  
- Offer a clean, distraction-free learning environment  
- Enable self-paced learning without external tools  

---

## 👥 Target Audience

- University and school students  
- Electronics and IoT beginners  
- Arduino hobbyists and makers  
- Self-learners exploring embedded systems  
- Educators introducing Arduino concepts  

---

## 🛠 Key Features & Learning Modules

ArduinoLab is organized into a **modern grid-based layout**, providing quick access to each learning module.

### 💻 Core Programming
- Arduino IDE basics  
- Arduino C/C++ syntax  
- Variables, loops, and conditions  
- Digital and analog pin usage  

### 📡 Communication
- Serial Monitor usage  
- Debugging techniques  
- Data transmission and monitoring  

### 💡 Lighting & Inputs
- LED interfacing  
- Digital buttons  
- Pull-up and pull-down logic  

### ⚙️ Motion & Actuators
- Servo motor control  
- DC motor control  
- Relay module operation  

### 📺 Visual Displays
- LED display interfacing  
- LCD screen basics  
- OLED display usage  

### 📏 Sensing the World
- Ultrasonic sensors (distance measurement) 📏  
- DHT sensors (temperature & humidity) 🌡️  
- LDR sensors (light intensity) ☀️  
- Sound sensors 🔊  
- PIR motion sensors 🏃‍♂️  

---

## 🔍 Detailed Module Breakdown

Each module includes:
- Component introduction  
- Working principle explanation  
- Required hardware list  
- Circuit understanding (concept-based)  
- Arduino code explanation  
- Practical use cases  

---

## 🎨 UI/UX Design Highlights

ArduinoLab focuses heavily on **modern, premium UI/UX design** optimized for long learning sessions.

- 🌙 **Dark Theme UI** – Reduces eye strain  
- 💎 **Teal Gradient Backgrounds** – Custom XML drawable shapes  
- 📱 **Rounded Cards** – 12dp corner radius for a modern look  
- 📐 **Grid Layout Design** – Two-column responsive grid  
- ⚡ **Optimized Layouts** – Built using `ConstraintLayout` and `RelativeLayout`  
- 🔄 **Smooth Navigation** – Clean transitions between activities  

---

## 🏗 App Architecture & Structure

- Modular activity-based structure  
- Separate activities for each learning module  
- Intent-based navigation system  
- Reusable XML layout components  
- Scalable design for future modules  

---

## 📱 Screens & Navigation Flow

- Splash Screen  
- Home / Dashboard  
- Module Grid View  
- Individual Tutorial Screens  
- Code & Explanation Views  

## 📸 Screenshots

## 📸 Screenshots

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Splash Screen</th>
    <th>Home Dashboard</th>
    <th>Tutorial Grid</th>
    <th>Core Programming</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0464b52f-7d15-447d-aa29-1c8f42cebc8f" width="200"/></td>
    <td><img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/db61dace-d5aa-4510-a27e-e5175cc0dd29" width="200"/></td>
    <td><img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/84271736-45cb-47f4-9fd4-89e8f320fb81" width="200"/></td>
    <td><img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/92d7abe3-9b4d-43cf-9eac-1265a69b6b19" width="200"/></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th>My Projects</th>
    <th>Update Tutorial</th>
    <th>Tutorial Screen</th>
    <th></th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/376a6479-9ef0-413e-b5f6-7faec9ff8338" width="200"/></td>
    <td><img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3728e5b6-df46-4fdd-8aca-075d8857edfe" width="200"/></td>
    <td><img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c0268bc3-e286-489b-88df-9c428bc16eb1" width="200"/></td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

### ✅ Prerequisites

- Android Studio **Jellyfish** or newer  
- Android SDK **34+**  
- Java **8 or higher**  
- Android device or emulator  

---

## 📦 Installation

1. **Clone the repository**

   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/ArduinoLab.git

2. **Open in Android Studio**

   * Open Android Studio
   * Select the `ArduinoLab` project folder

3. **Build the project**

   * Allow Gradle to sync dependencies

4. **Run the app**

   * Connect an Android device or start an emulator
   * Click the **Run ▶️** button

---

## ▶️ Usage

* Launch the ArduinoLab app
* Select a module from the home grid
* Follow step-by-step tutorials
* Learn Arduino concepts at your own pace

No internet connection is required once the app is installed.

---

## 🛠 Built With

* ☕ **Java** – Application logic and activity handling
* 🎨 **XML Layouts** – UI design using ConstraintLayout & RelativeLayout
* 🖼 **Vector Drawables** – High-quality scalable icons
* 📱 **Android SDK** – Native Android development

---

## ⚡ Performance & Compatibility

* Optimized for low and mid-range Android devices
* Smooth UI rendering with minimal memory usage
* Compatible with Android SDK 34+
* Responsive across different screen sizes

---

## 🔮 Future Enhancements

* Interactive quizzes for each module
* Built-in Arduino code simulator
* Video-based tutorials
* IoT and ESP32 modules
* Dark/Light theme toggle
* Multi-language support

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions help improve ArduinoLab and make learning more accessible.

### How to Contribute

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a new branch : git checkout -b feature/YourFeature
3. Commit your changes: git commit -m "Add new feature"
4. Push to GitHub: git push origin feature/YourFeature
5. Open a Pull Request

---

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the **MIT License**.

You are free to:
- Use the project for personal or commercial purposes
- Modify and distribute the source code
- Include it in academic or portfolio work

See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for full license details.

---

## 📧 Contact

**Nadeeshana Lahiru Kavinda**
Email: `nadeeshana1998@gmail.com`
